when people feel appreciated and
connected they're able to get through
even the most uncertain of times my name
is Kate well I am a relationship with
psychosocial therapists whether you've
been together a week or a year every
relationship is going to face its
challenges at this time people who are
together and spending all their time
together of craving a bit of
independence a bit of distance between
themselves and the people that are apart
are craving exactly the opposite they
want the closeness they want the
physical proximity some couples might
suddenly find themselves in a
long-distance relationship when actually
they're used to seeing each other really
regularly every day every other day and
this might feel like a bit of a shock to
the system and so it's really good to
work out how you're going to maintain
that sense of intimacy whilst you are
apart is it that actually you sit and
have a video call whilst you're having a
meal together so you're able to kind of
feel that you're in the room is it that
actually you share kind of questions you
send each other photos you send each
other articles how regularly do you want
to speak to each other
set some ground rules so just to say
look we're here we're kind of adjusting
to this new normal but these are the
things that I find important or these
the things that I like to do in my home
and you both get to put rules in so
you're able to manage each other's
expectations it can feel really
challenging to keep the spark alive at
the moment if we're spending 24/7 with
our partners and actually we know that
desire kind of thrives across a bit of
distance between people what I suggests
is changing the context so it might feel
really trivial but just taking your
bedding or into a different space
changing the lights putting some music
on and that shifting context can help
you to actually change your headspace
and that will help you to be in a more
sexual and intimate headspace that are
never switching off to turn on some of
the common pitfalls that we see our
miscommunication if we are apart that's
really easy to happen because we're
communicating through virtual things and
we don't have that body language we're
less able to read what our partners mean
and actually we don't have the tone of
voice and things if we're communicated
by text a really simple way of changing
the way that you talk to each other is
using I statements so I feel these are
my feelings I'm taking ownership of how
I'm feeling I'm not blaming you or
attacking you or criticizing and what
this does is it opens up the
communication between you because if we
are feeling blamed the first thing we're
going to do is feel defensive and that's
going to change the way that the
communication goes on from there try not
to over criticize just say actually
could we try to do this differently the
other thing is to assume that your
partner's doing their best if we get a
bit stuck and if we get a bit in the
cycle of misunderstanding each other we
assume that our partner is trying to
irritate us or not listening
deliberately and actually that so often
isn't the case
a really common behavior in couples is
this thing called mind-reading where we
think that we know what our partner is
thinking so we actually don't check it
out with them so we make a decision
based on what we think is going on in
their head rather than what they're
actually saying and what this can lead
to is misunderstanding each other
try not to assume that you know what
your partner's thinking are some
questions like did I hear that right
have I got that correct could I just
check that out with you
all relationships take work and actually
at the moment even more so because what
we're doing where there's a period of
unpredictability so what's really
important is that you communicate with
each other clearly whether you are
together or apart working out a new way
of being and helping each other to feel
secure and safe in the relationship and
giving each other your quality time and
attention